
https://fullstackopen.com/en/part0/fundamentals_of_web_apps

# browser settings

The 1st rule of web development: Always keep the Developer Console open on your web browser.
macOS -> fn-F12 or option-cmd-i
Windows or Linux -> Fn-F12 or ctrl-shift-i

Disable cache
Preserve log 
Hide extension URLs


# Event handler

The mechanism of invoking event handlers is very common in JavaScript. Event handler functions are called callback functions. The application code does not invoke the functions itself, but the runtime environment - the browser - invokes the function at an appropriate time when the event has occurred.


var xhttp = new XMLHttpRequest()

xhttp.onreadystatechange = function() {

On above line, an event handler for the event onreadystatechange is defined for the xhttp object doing the request. When the state of the object changes, the browser calls the event handler function. 

 JavaScript code uses the id to find the element.

# Document Object Model, or DOM
DOM is an Application Programming Interface (API) that enables programmatic modification of the element trees corresponding to web pages.

The JavaScript code can use the DOM-API to add a list of notes to the page.

# Cascading Style Sheets, or CSS
CSS is a style sheet language used to determine the appearance of web pages.
The Elements (Style Editor) tab of the console can be used to change the styles of the elements.


# submit form

The server responds with HTTP status code 302. This is a URL redirect, with which the server asks the browser to perform a new HTTP GET request to the address defined in the header's Location.


# AJAX

AJAX (Asynchronous JavaScript and XML) is a term introduced in February 2005 on the back of advancements in browser technology to describe a new revolutionary approach that enabled the fetching of content to web pages using JavaScript included within the HTML, without the need to rerender the page.

Before the AJAX era, all web pages worked like the traditional web application: : All of the logic is on the server, and the browser only renders the HTML as instructed (all of the data shown on the page was fetched with the HTML code generated by the server).
The thing termed AJAX is now so commonplace that it's taken for granted. The term has faded into oblivion, and the new generation has not even heard of it.


# Single page app (SPA)

In recent years, the Single-page application (SPA) style of creating web applications has emerged. SPA-style websites don't fetch all of their pages separately from the server like our sample application does, but instead comprise only one HTML page fetched from the server, the contents of which are manipulated with JavaScript that executes in the browser.

Old way:
    <form action="/exampleapp/new_note" method="POST">
      <input type="text" name="note"><br>
      <input type="submit" value="Save">
    </form>

New way:
    <form id="notes_form">
      <input type="text" name="note"><br>
      <input type="submit" value="Save">
    </form>

The form has no action or method attributes to define how and where to send the input data.
Open the Network tab and empty it. When you now create a new note, you'll notice that the browser sends only one request to the server.


# Vanilla Javascript
Vanilla JavaScript is a term used to refer to JavaScript code that is written without the aid of any external libraries or frameworks. It is simply a pure JavaScript code written in its raw form, without any plugins or other libraries.


# JavaScript-libraries

from old to new and popularity
- Query
- BackboneJS 
- Google's AngularJS (2012)
- Google's AngularJS 2 (2014)
- Facebook's React + Redux libarary
- VueJS


full-stack:  the frontend, the backend, and the database. Sometimes the software on the server and its operating system are seen as parts of the stack

Backend: JavaScript, using the Node.js runtime environment. 

JavaScript Fatigue:
    https://auth0.com/blog/how-to-manage-javascript-fatigue/
    https://medium.com/@ericclemmons/javascript-fatigue-48d4011b6fc4


# Excercises

0.1: HTML
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/HTML_basics

0.2: CSS
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/CSS_basics

0.3: HTML forms
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/HTML/Forms/Your_first_HTML_form

0.4: New note diagram


0.5: Single page app diagram


0.6: New note in Single page app diagram
